- [Instructor] Maven is a common way how you build
and package and deploy your Java application.
The other common way, typically, is Gradle.
So this section, we'll take a look at how,
if you are packaging your application using Gradle
and what kind of Gradle and Docker plugins are available.
First, we will look at our application.
Fortunately, in our case we will use
the same application as we use for Maven.
So you go to arun-gubta/docker-java-sample.
This is the GitHub repo that you're going to be looking at.
In my case, I have this application open in NetBeans.
So let's take a look at it in NetBeans as well.
Here we are in NetBeans,
and if I were to look at my project,
it's still the same Hello World! application.
Now, if I look at the files tab here
and I can look at my build.gradle here,
you can see that there's my build script
and I'm specifying the repositories.
I need to specify the dependencies in terms of classpath.
Again, just like Maven, for Gradle as well
there are several plugins available.
This one is my favorite because this is the easiest to use.
It allows you to package your application
using Docker remote API
but it has also certain defaults that are available
that allows you to simply package an application
for Java, and that's the part that I love about it.
So, as a matter of fact, you will see
what the plugin that we're applying here is,
docker-java-application plugin.
Well, of course you've got to import the right packages,
you give your group and version.
This is my main class name.
This is pretty standard data stuff here.
And here in the Docker fragment I can define
how my Java application looks.
There are default targets that are available to you,
so in this case, I'm saying, Java application.
There are default values that I'm overriding.
So for example, I'm saying my base image
is going to be openjdk:latest.
I'm defining a tag for my image,
and in this case, it's going to be hellojava.
Last but not the least, I can define some custom tasks.
So, create a container and start a container.
In this case, startContainer actually
depends upon createContainer.
The createContainer will depend on BuildImage itself.
Essentially, you have, again,
a flow being created over here.
Let's take a look at how a typical Grader developer
will use this plugin, and what the output would look like.
So let's go to a terminal for that.
Now here, I'm in my terminal
and let's look at the directory.
This is docker Java sample.
We are familiar with this.
A typical Gradle flow would look like,
I will just say gradlew, and I will say build and run.
This is going to build my application
and it's going to run my application.
In this case, it's just taking the simple Java application
and it's saying "Hello World!"
Which is exactly what we expected.
So that's not bad.
Now, we looked at Builder Gradle,
and we looked at the Docker Gradle plugin as well.
Let's see how my flow changes for that.
This is a little bit different.
In that sense, there is no profile, in this case here,
so what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to use the same gradlew command
and I'm going to say dockerBuildImage.
Now, this is a default target
that is available to you that you can use,
just because you're using the Docker Gradle plugin
or Docker Gradle Java plugin, particularly.
So these are some default targets that are available to you.
If I say, build this image,
it builds the image for me,
and you can see there is a from target here.
There is adding the target here.
It automatically takes the artifact that is generated
and included in there,
and it also adds an entry point for me.
It also exposes a port.
All of these values can be overridden,
but most of the time the defaults would work for you.
If we look at the list of images
that are available to us now,
this hellojava latest essentially, this was generated
about 23 seconds ago, is our latest image.
That's good, now we can generate an image.
Now, I want to run the image.
What I will do is, I will go to gradlew,
and if you remember, all I will say is startContainer.
So I'm going to start the container here.
Well, in this case, startContainer depends
upon dockerBuildImage or createContainer,
and then all those commands are executed.
Now the startContainer here is a little bit different.
It starts the container in the background,
so you'll be surprised.
I don't see the "Hello World!" output.
Well, there is a way by which
we can see the "Hello World!" output.
Let's take a look at docker container ls.
Now, the containers are running, because remember
our container was just printing "Hello World!"
So the container has executed and exited as well.
So let's take a look at the complete list
of containers in that case.
It says this container was exited about 32 seconds ago,
and this is our container ID,
and it's got a nice name, gracious_knuth.
Let's pick up this container ID.
And we can say docker container logs
and show me the logs.
Hello World!
This is exactly where your output is setting.
Once again, if you're using a Builder Gradle
to build your Java application,
you have full support that is available.
Let's take a look at some other extensions
that are available as part of the Docker Gradle plugin.
In the browser, bmuschko, Gradle Docker plugin
is where all of your content is living.
You can read all the documentation here.
It talks about the usages.
It talks about how you can use with a Docker remote API,
which gives you a lot more flexibility.
Or, you can just use a Java version of it,
which is an (mumbling) version,
but that works very well.
You can look at the custom tasks that are available.
Docker info, Docker version.
You can look at what kind of images are available
or the plugins, what they provide,
and the Docker build image is the one that we used.
You can look at listing the image, pushing an image.
Just very similar to the Docker Maven plugin,
you have a Docker Gradle plugin
which offers similar functionality to you.
You can keep going down here.
It talks about, what can you do with the container?
Start, stop, wait, kill, inspect,
all different kinds of things that you can do
with the container here.
And if you keep going down here,
it talks a little bit more about the usage examples,
how you can build an image.
There is a reactive version of the plugin available as well
if you want to get a little bit more fancy.
And last but not the least,
this is the plugin that we actually used
and these were the extension properties
that we were overriding, essentially.
What base image you want to use,
and remember we saw, by default,
there was a maintainer tab that was added?
It uses a value of user.home system property.
We can start overriding these values
by defining these extension properties
in our Docker fragment of the Builder Gradle.
And that is a sample that is shown here in the example.
Just like Docker Maven plugin,
Docker Gradle plugin is equally powerful
and it gives you reasonable defaults
to easily help you build your Docker image
and run your container using Gradle.